(peaceful music)
All right, in this video,
we are gonna take a look
at the new Spring Framework 5 WebTestClient.
And this does some really neat stuff
when it comes to dealing with the reactive client.
And what we wanna do here is get this set up.
It reminds me a lot of the MockMVC stuff that we saw
when we had the Servlet API going,
but this is specifically for the WebFlux stuff.
And you can see here, I have line 28,
I created a property for WebTestClient,
and I'm also initializing a Mock for our RecipeService.
And similar to our other test,
and this is gonna be a pure unit test,
I am initializing the Mockito mocks there on line 35.
And remember the WebConfig.
Now, this is important.
This is a configuration that we created
for our RouterFunction, and what we wanna do
is get a handle on this RouterFunction,
because we are gonna take this RouterFunction
and built our WebTestClient.
So, we're gonna bind to RouterFunction.
Now, for this to work properly, what we wanna do
is use the WebTest Client, bind to the routerFunction.build(),
but before we create that RouterFunction,
we are gonna inject in our recipeService.
So, this is gonna emulate what Spring Framework is gonna do
with context running,
here it does the dependency injection for us.
Now, let's go ahead and write a couple tests with this.
I'm gonna close that.
Do a command enter here, a new test method.
Now, I always want to put an e there.
So.
Let's go webTestClient.
We'll do a get.
Now, we wanna say uri.
Remember, we said
/api/recipes.
And we wanna say accept.
APPLICATION_JSON.
Now, we're gonna say exchange.
This is gonna cause it to invoke the WebClient.
expectStatus isOk.
And then also let's do an expectBody.
and, we'll hold off on expectBody.
We just wanna make sure.
Let's just make sure that we get a valid response here.
Now, I'm gonna go ahead and run this,
and I know it's gonna throw an error,
but I wanna show you the error that it tosses.
And we're seeing here, we're getting a 500 error.
What's happening is,
our recipeService is returning back a null.
So, rather than turning back a Flux,
we wanna return it back an empty Flux,
but we didn't set it up in the Mockito behavior.
The default behavior of Mockito is return back a null
if we don't tell it anything differently.
So, let's go in and fix that.
We'll say when.
And we wanna say getRecipes,
because that's what it's gonna be calling inside.
We're gonna say just Flux.
So, it's just an empty Flux.
And let's go ahead and run this again.
So, now we can see that it's passed,
and we get an OK status.
Now, let's make this a little bit more interesting.
Go ahead and copy this; speed things up a little bit.
Say test recipes with data, and rather than just a null,
let's have it return back just a new recipe object.
We don't need to populate with any data.
Now, what we can do is come down here
and expectBodyList.
And what we are seeing is that we are expecting to get back
a list, a list function there.
So again, this is gonna accept APPLICATION_JSON, exchange,
this is gonna invoke the web service.
Now we're gonna expect a status back of isOk.
So, a 200 response, and we wanna get back a body,
and we're expecting a list of objects in that body,
and that list should contain recipes.
So, let's go ahead and run this.
And that passes.
And actually, we should be able to...
Have a couple recipes there,
so let's go ahead and run this again.
And there's a nice little demo, so what we have now
is a nice testing framework
around the reactive WebFlux stuff,
so this is a lot like, gives us a lot of the capabilities
for testing these end points in the reactive context.
So, let's bring WebFlux stuff up.
Right now, the maturity is really focused on web services.
This functional stuff that we are demonstrating
is really fantastic for web services,
and we're gonna be seeing a lot more of it.
In this video, I just wanted to get your feet wet with it.
We are definitely
gonna be getting into more complex examples
as we move forward in the course,
but this is just an introduction to the WebTestClient
in this video.